Zolaetha and Aldyn were the firstborn twin daughters of Talma and Inoru.  They were, in all things, inseparable; in their youth, they were accomplished tricksters and masterminded pranks that confounded and irritated their parents as much as they amused them. When Ashara was in the home port, she took a particular shine to the twins' antics- and in return, they held a deep regard for their aunt. Ashara's tales, of far-off Kara-Tur and the Sword Coast, of Icewind Dale and the sands of Zakhara to the south, captivated the girls throughout their childhood. 

It is no surprise, then, that Zolaetha and Aldyn followed in their aunts' footsteps in later life. Inseparable as always, they eventually came to be the co-captains of the *Nivreyin*, travelling as far as the Yellow Sea and (if their tall tales were to be believed) even being welcomed on shrouded Ossé. Even as they had frustrated their parents in their youth, they came to be nearly invaluable to the family in their later life, reaching and trading with far lands that even Ashara had never seen. 

In 1385, Ashara asked the twins for passage to Halruaa, troubled by dark visions and having left her own *Gallant Star* behind in the Moonshae Isles. Duly, the three worldstriders returned to Halruaa once again, and there remained until the Sacrifice. 

Despite the grief and tribulations of the new world, Aldyn and Zolaetha were well equipped for the new waters they found themselves in. Though stripped of their magic, in truth it was mainly their cleverness and cunning that had borne them across unknown seas on Toril, and the same stars shone on Abeir as did on Toril. Among the first envoys of Halruaa on Abeir, the work of the remainder of their lives was to chart the new world.

___

Aldyn was always the instigator of the sisters- excellent at dreaming up plans, but not always capable of seeing them through alone. Perhaps in another circumstance her sister might have found this annoying, but fortunately Zolaetha derived more than enough enjoyment from Aldyn's elaborate schemes to make the trouble worthwhile. Indeed, many of their greatest successes were often ideas that Aldyn dreamed up.



#gen2