### Talma 
***"You ask of me a mercy that you have denied all those who resisted you. How many of our villages have you burned, Thayan? Would you tell me to spit on their graves, as well?"* - Captain Talma Solam, to tharchion Belzarad of Thay, shortly before his execution in 1327 DR**

A powerful archwizard and elementalist before the Sacrifice, Talma gained great renown in her early life as a battlemage and warder. After retiring from the military, she soon settled into a mercantile life with her husband, Inoru, in 1333; working with Ashara, they would soon build a small fortune on enchanted wares, and bring the Solam family out of obscurity.

As time went on, she would gain a fearsome reputation amongst those who knew her; although usually gentle, Talma was not a woman to be crossed lightly, and she had the temper to match a typhoon. Amongst the younger Solam, in particular, there was a common, unspoken understanding: if they had made a mistake worth the matriarchs' attention, they had best hope it was Ashara who was chastising them- for Talma, with her steel-clad heart, would give a much harsher sentence.

Although she nonetheless held the affection of her family, this made Talma somewhat aloof from them; and, in particular, after Inoru's death she became almost a recluse. Before 1379, she was a prominent member of the Lower Council of Halruaa, set to take on the mantle of the Elder Council sooner rather than later. Inoru's death and, some years later, Moshun's exile would drive her into a deep depression, and cause her to withdraw from the world for almost two years thereafter. In those dark years, only her daughters and her sister could hope to approach Talma.  

As the year of the Sacrifice crept upon them, however, Talma had once again begun to come out into the world. A wizard of her caliber must by definition have immense mental and spiritual fortitude, and it perhaps speaks of the depth of her sentiment that she withdrew for as long as she had.

In a happier world, it is not unlikely that she would have lived for several successful lifetimes- but by then, the Spellplague had ravaged much of Faerun, and Halruaa would not be able to withstand it for much longer. Ashara came home one last time, speaking of endings- begging Talma to flee with the family before they were consumed in fire. But, before all, the eldest Solam held duty and loyalty at the core of her being.  When the time came that Halruaa was at the precipice, Talma was among the greatest of the archwizards to give her life and save her nation from destruction.

### Inoru 
*m. 1332*

Inoru was a simple man in most ways; a runewright by trade, he met Talma in the last years of her military career. In life, he was known as a jovial and calm man, and deeply gifted storyteller. His gentle demeanor was often noted in contrast to Talma's passions, but although their natures were so drastically different, the depth of their love for one another could not be missed- for it was only Inoru who could always stay Talma from acting in anger, and it was only Inoru with whom Talma shared her deepest sentiments.

Inoru died in 1379, stilled in the midst of a Thayan raid while visiting old friends in a village in the western mountains. His death threw a somber shadow across the family for years- long-lived as wizards often are, few of them had been made to look in the face of death in decades.
#### Progeny
* [[Aldyn (1331- 1412)]]
* [[Zolaetha (1331 - 1420)]]
* [[Moshun (1332- e. 1382) and Alaina (1338 - 1385)]]



#gen1