Zolaetha and Aldyn were the firstborn twin daughters of Talma and Inoru.  They were, in all things, inseparable; in their youth, they were accomplished tricksters and masterminded pranks that confounded and irritated their parents as much as they amused them. When Ashara was in the home port, she took a particular shine to the twins' antics- and in return, they held a deep regard for their aunt. Ashara's tales, of far-off Kara-Tur and the Sword Coast, of Icewind Dale and the sands of Zakhara to the south, captivated the girls throughout their childhood. 

It is no surprise, then, that Zolaetha and Aldyn followed in their aunts' footsteps in later life. Inseparable as always, they eventually came to be the co-captains of the *Nivreyin*, travelling as far as the Yellow Sea and (if their tall tales were to be believed) even being welcomed on shrouded Ossé. Even as they had frustrated their parents in their youth, they came to be nearly invaluable to the family in their later life, reaching and trading with far lands that even Ashara had never seen. 

In 1385, Ashara asked the twins for passage to Halruaa, troubled by dark visions and having left her own *Gallant Star* behind in the Moonshae Isles. Duly, the three worldstriders returned to Halruaa once again, and there remained until the Sacrifice. 

Despite the grief and tribulations of the new world, Aldyn and Zolaetha were well equipped for the new waters they found themselves in. Though stripped of their magic, in truth it was mainly their cleverness and cunning that had borne them across unknown seas on Toril, and the same stars shone on Abeir as did on Toril. Among the first envoys of Halruaa on Abeir, the work of the remainder of their lives was to chart the new world.

___

As a child, Zolaetha was the more responsible of the pair- although such a comparison could be called weak, since she participated wholeheartedly in Aldyn's schemes. While her sister's talents lay in cooking up trouble, Zolaetha had an uncanny knack for guilefully escaping consequences for them. Even Talma, who was more than aware of her daughters' proclivities, was often at a loss for how to discipline them- Zolaetha had learned quickly how to cover her tracks.

When she first met Ogion, he had been staying with the family in their homeland, working to get back on his feet. Although their initial impressions of one another were cool, they soon came to hold a deep friendship. Later, there would be rumours that there had been more than mere friendship between them- but if they are true, it was not to be. Though Zolaetha and Ogion were both middle-aged by the time they arrived on Abeir, an elf might live ten lives of humans. Whatever there was between them, it was inevitably ended too soon.

After Aldyn's death in 1412, Zolaetha took to the seas once again, travelling now with Ogion as an ambassador to Lantan. She served in this capacity for the remaining eight years of her life, and on a last homeward voyage passed peacefully under friendly stars.


#gen2